A king for many years kept the peasant hands of iron, cast iron head , copper itself , Dodger was an important man. Tsaryu1 son Ivan Tsarevich was little, walked past the prison. This old man podklikal to him, and begged him, " Please give me a Prince Ivan , get drunk ! " Prince Ivan knew nothing - was small, drew water and gave him an old man with in the prison is gone, gone. This news came to the king and . The king ordered Ivan Tsarevich this business expelled from 
the kingdom. King's word - the law : Ivan Tsarevich was expelled from the kingdom , he went aimlessly.

Was a long time , and finally comes to the other kingdoms directly to the king asking to service. The king received him 
, ordered to make the groom . He only sleeps in the stables and the horses do not go ; stables headman not once beat him 
. Ivan Tsarevich all suffered . Some king woos princess at this king and arrange a marriage , for declared war. This 
king left with the troops , and left the kingdom to rule his daughter Martha - princess . She first noticed Ivan 
Tsarevich , he is not just old , and sent for him in some place governor.

Prince Ivan went to live there , just cause . Once he went to hunt , and only left for zhilo2 - nowhere took peasant 
hands of iron, cast iron head , copper himself , "Oh, hello, Prince Ivan ! " Ivan Tsarevich bowed to him . The old man 
calls him : " Come , - he says - to visit me ." Come on. The old man brought him to a rich house , small daughter 
shouted , "Hey, let's us eat and drink , and the cup of wine poluvedernuyu ! " Biting ; suddenly poluvedernuyu daughter 
brings a cup of wine and brings Ivan Tsarevich . He refuses , saying, "I do not drink! " Old man tells the brethren took
the cup , and where he took power - one spirit and drank this wine !

Then the old man called his carousing ; reached stone five pounds . The old man says : " Raise the stone , Ivan 
Tsarevich ! " He thinks to himself, " Where do I pick up a stone! But try . " and took easily chipped ; myself again and
think, " How could I have taken power? I bet the old man in the wine delivers it to me . " Like how much time and went 
into the house. Substitutions : Farmgate old daughter cried a bucket of wine to bring . Ivan Tsarevich boldly took the 
cup of wine , drank one spirit. Again went carousing , reached a thousand pounds of stone . The old man says Ivan 
Tsarevich , "Now , Peremetnoe this stone ! " Ivan Tsarevich instantly seized a stone and threw it , and thinks to 
himself, " Eka force wants me to be! "

Turned back into the house again , and again the old man shouted daughter bring large bucket half green wine goblet . 
Ivan Tsarevich and drank it on one breath. Went to the old man to roam. Ivan Tsarevich gently threw a stone and a half 
thousand pounds . Then the old man gave him skatertku - samovertku and says: " Well, Prince Ivan , you are now in a lot 
of power : horse does not pick up! Porch were to change, you will not raise it ; chairs need others ; under floor can 
often instruct podstoek3 . Go with God ! " All people laughed when they saw that the governor from the hunt goes on foot
, and the horse is on the bit . He came home , under floor told instruct racks , chairs are all altered , stryapok4 , 
maids drove one himself lives like a hermit . And marvel at how he lives with hunger , no he did not concoct ! Even 
though it nourishes skatertka - samovertka .

On a visit to go to anyone he did not , and how to walk ? Nothing he has raised in homes.

Meanwhile, the king returned to the campaign learned that Prince Ivan lives governor ordered them to change and make the
groom again . Nothing to do - Prince Ivan began to live a groom . Once stables became his elder somewhere to dress up , 
and hit ; Prince Ivan lost his temper and grabbed him as myself, so the head and the suburbs . It came it to the king 
led Ivan Tsarevich . "Almost thou injury elder ? " - Asked the king . " He hit me in advance , I do not shibko5 and paid
him , but somehow on the head : the head and disappeared ." Other grooms said the same - reserve in advance headman , 
and Prince Ivan hit him neshibko . Did nothing with Ivan Tsarevich , only changed from grooms as soldiers and then he 
began to live .

Not through a long time coming to the king himself peasant fingernail beard with his elbow , and delivers the letter for
three black seals against water king is written here : if the king on a certain day and at such an island will not bring
his daughter Princess Martha - vzamuzh6 water king 's son , he would kill all the people and all the kingdom sozhget 
fire , and beyond , princess Martha is a three-headed serpent . The king read the letter , he gave a different answer 
from him to the water to the king 's daughter agrees to give and has given the old man and called senators and clerk of 
the council pondering how to defend the three-headed serpent from daughter ? If not send it to the island , the whole 
kingdom

from the water king will die. Clicked cry vyischetsya not such a person , who would undertake to rescue from the serpent
- princess Martha ? In order for her king and give vzamuzh .

Found some poddergayko7 took a company of soldiers , took Marfa - princess , brings to the island , he left her in the 
hut , and the serpent was waiting on the street. Meanwhile Prince Ivan learned that Martha - princess was taken to the 
water to the king , met and went to the island , came into the hut , Marfa princess cries. "Do not cry , princess ! - He
told her. - God is merciful ! " Sam went on the bench , put his head on his knees , Princess Martha, and fell asleep. 
Suddenly the snake and started to leave , the water rushed him to three yards . The gentleman with the soldiers standing
there , and as the beginning of the water coming, and he commanded them : "March of the forest ! " Soldiers all have 
gone to the forest. Serpent came out and goes straight into the hut . Princess Martha - saw that the serpent goes after 
her, beginning to wake Prince Ivan , he jumped at bay once all three heads of the serpent , and he left. Barin took Marfa - princess home to his father.

Not a lot of time through the old man himself with a nail , beard with his elbow out of the water again and carries on 
the water king letter for six black seals brought to the king 's daughter to the same six-headed snake island , and if 
he did not give Martha - princess , the king of Water threatened to sink the whole kingdom . King wills again , he 
agrees to give Martha - princess . Small starichonko left. King began to click cry ; paper sent everywhere : there is 
not such a person , who would rid Martha - princess from the serpent ? The same gentleman appeared again , saying, "I , 
Your Majesty , deliver , just give a company of soldiers ." - "Yes, no longer need it? Now the serpent of six chapters . " - " Budet8 . Me and a lot of this . "

Gathered , drove Martha - princess , and Prince Ivan learned that Princess Martha - back in adversity , for her virtue 
that made ​​him governor went there there , went there , as well, found in Princess Martha - hut comes to her . She is 
waiting for him too , only saw - was delighted . He lay down and fell asleep. Suddenly, six-headed serpent and started 
to leave , the water rushed six yards . Barin soldiers still sitting on sperva9 lesu10 . Serpent entered the hut , Marfa
princess woke Ivan Tsarevich behold they grabbed , fought , fought , Prince Ivan compartment serpent 's head , a friend 
, a third , and all six and sbrosal them in water , and he seemed in no way been - gone . Barin soldiers dismounted from
the forest, went home , brings the king that God had helped defend Martha - princess , and it can be seen , this 
gentleman nastraschal something she did not dare to say that he had not defended it . Gentleman became nigh to make the 
wedding. Princess Martha - orders to wait. "Give , - he says - I get better with fear , and then I won both scared ! "

Suddenly again the same old self with nail , beard comes with elbow
of water and carries a letter from nine black seals to the king immediately sent Princess Martha - on such an island and
on a certain day to The nine serpent , and if not send , then all his kingdom will be sunk . Again wrote to the king 
that he agrees , he began to look for such a person , no matter how saved the princess from The nine serpent . The same 
gentleman turn up again and went with a company of soldiers and Marfa - princess .

Prince Ivan heard it going and went there, and Princess Martha - there waiting for him too . He came , and she was 
delighted, began to ask him how he feels old, who is , what is the name ? He said nothing , lay down and fell asleep. 
The nine serpent here and started to leave , the water lifted up himself for nine yards . Barin again commanded the 
soldiers: "March of the forest ! " Climbed . Marfa princess wakes Prince Ivan , can not wake up ; serpent too close at 
the doorstep ! She tearfully cried , Ivan Tsarevich wake everybody can not . Serpent crawls too , just grab Ivan 
Tsarevich ! He sleeps . Martha was a princess - pocket -knife , and she and they reznula cheek Ivan Tsarevich . He woke 
up , jumped , grabbed the snake with beat - to flounder . That serpent began izdolyat11 Ivan Tsarevich . Nowhere took 
peasant hands of iron, cast iron head , copper himself , grabbed the snake , cut off all his dvoymya head sbrosali into 
the water and left. Barin pusche12 that they were glad to soskakali forest, went to his kingdom , and he persistently 
begged the king to make the wedding . Princess Martha - refused : " Wait a bit so let me recover , and then I won both 
scared! "

The old man himself with a nail , beard with the elbow again brought the letter . Water king requires guilty . Master, 
and did not want to have to go to the water to the king , but nothing to do - sent. Rockets ship and went ( and Ivan 
Tsarevich then served in the Navy , somehow ended up here on the ship ); float . Suddenly the ship to meet them - as the
bird flies , just shout: " guilty, guilty ! " - And ran past . Little sail , ship towards another , and again shouted: 
"guilty , guilty ! " Prince Ivan pointed to his master , so they beat him , beat - to death ! Forget it .

Here they come to the water to the king . Water heat the king ordered hot cast iron whether , whether iron bath and put 
blame there. Barin scared have one's heart in one's mouth ! Smertonka comes ! And Prince Ivan stayed with those 
korabley13 some people saw that Prince Ivan is not a simple race , and began to serve him . Ivan Tsarevich and sent him 
: "Go , sit out in the bath ." Now he ran ; him - and then the devil is - there is nothing being done , he ran back 
unharmed. Guilty again demanded , now I myself to the Water to the king, his master gone. Oh , it scolded scolded , beat
- beat Water king and ordered to banish . Let's go back.

Barin forest home became more proud and does not depart from the king starts to do the wedding. King promise in marriage; appointed day be

wedding. Barin - which rose ! Hand can not get ! No one does not come close ! A princess tells his father : "Father ! 
Conducted to gather all the soldiers I want to watch them. " Immediately the soldiers gathered . Princess Martha - and 
went all comes to pass and Ivan Tsarevich , looked at cheek and sees the scar as it reznula his knife , she takes Prince 
Ivan 's hand and leads to his father, " That , sir, who delivered me from the serpents and I did not know - who he is, 
and now learned over the scar on his cheek . Master - of soldiers sitting on the forest ! " Immediately those soldiers 
asked whether they were sitting on the forest? They said: " It is true , Your Majesty ! Barin was barely alive, is unfit 
! " Togo once demoted and sent him into exile , and Ivan Tsarevich married to Martha - princess , began to live and let 
be chewed bread .
