In a certain kingdom there lived a merchant . Twelve years he lived in matrimony and Presser only one daughter , 
Vasilisa the Beautiful . When the mother died , the girl was eight years old . Dying, the merchant's wife called to her 
daughter , took out from under the blanket doll gave her and said, " Listen, Vasilisushka ! Remember and fulfill my last 
words. I'm dying , and with parental blessing leave you here this doll , take care of it always with you and do not show 
anyone , and when the grief befall thee , let her eat and ask her advice. Molest her and tells you how to help sufferers 
. " Then mother and daughter kissed died.

After his wife's death merchant tightly as they should , and then began thinking about how to get married again . He was 
a good man , the bride was not the case , but most of all to the liking of him came a widow . It has been in years , had 
his two daughters , almost coeval Vasilisa - hence , and the hostess and mother experienced . Merchant married widow , 
but was deceived and did not find it a good mother for his Vasilissa . Vasilisa was the first for all the village beauty 
, her stepmother and sisters envied her beauty , tortured her with all sorts of work to

128

she lost weight from his labors , and from the wind and the sun became black ; plaguing absolutely not!

Vasilisa bore all meekly and with each passing day and polnela prettier , and meanwhile his stepmother daughters grew 
thin and durnela anger , despite the fact that they always sat idly by as the ladies . How is it done ? Vasilisa helped 
her doll. Without it, where would a girl cope with all the work! But Vasilisa she used to not eat , let alone leave the 
chrysalis is the plum , and in the evening , all the dust settles , it lieth chulanchik where she lived , and regaled 
her , saying: " On , doll , eat, listen to my sorrow ! I live in the house of the priest , I do not see myself any joy ; 
wicked stepmother drives me with white light. You teach me how to be and to live and what to do ? " Dolly eat, but then 
gives her advice and comfort in sorrow , and in the morning for any work celebrates Vasilis ; she only rests in 
holodochke yes tearing flowers , and she too ridge weeded , watered and cabbage , and water nanoshu and vytoplena oven . 
Pupa still indicate Vasilisa and grass from sunburn . It was good to live with her ​​doll .

Several years passed , Vasilisa has grown to become a bride. All grooms in prisvatyvayutsya to Vasilisa , on Machehina 
daughters and no one will look . Stepmother angry than ever and all the suitors answered: " Do not betray the younger 
before the firstborn ! " And spending suitors beating vents evil Vasilisa .

One day the merchant took leave home for a long time in commercial matters . Stepmother and moved to live in another 
house , and near the house was a dense forest , and in the clearing in the forest stood a hut , and lived in a hut Baba 
Yaga : anyone she did not admit to himself and ate people like chickens. After moving to new home, a merchant's wife and 
then sent into the woods for something she hated Vasilisa , but this zavsegda returned home safely : doll reminded her of the way and did not admit to Baba Yaga's hut .

Autumn came . Stepmother distributed to all three girls evening work : one made ​​of lace weave , knit stockings another 
, and Vasilis spin , and all on lessons. Extinguished the fire in the house , leaving a candle where the girls worked , 
and she went to bed. Girls worked . Here nagorelo a candle , one of the daughters took Machehina tongs to straighten a 
candlestick , but instead , on the orders of the mother , as if by accident and blew out the candle. "What do we do now 
? - Said the girl. - Fire is not the whole house , and the lessons of our end. It is necessary to run the fire to Baba 
Yaga "-" I am the light of the pins ! - Said the one that spun lace . - I'm not going . " - "And I will not go , - said 
the one that knitting a stocking . - I spoke of light "-" You go to the fire - both cried . - Go to the Baba Yaga "- and 
pushed Vasilissa out of the room.

Vasilisa went to her chulanchik , has set doll cooked dinner and said, " Ha, doll, eat of my grief but listen: I send 
the fire to Baba Yaga , Baba Yaga will eat me! " Dolly ate , and her eyes sparkled as two candles . "Fear not, Vasilisus
hka ! - She said. - Go, where they send only hold me always

129

yourself. If I did not become of you at the Baba Yaga . " Vasilisa gathered , put your doll in his pocket , crossed and went into the dense forest .

She goes and trembling. Suddenly jumps past her horseman himself white, dressed in white, white horse under him , and the horse harness white - the yard was dawning .

She goes on as another rider gallops : red himself , dressed in red and a red horse - was the sun rise .

Vasilisa took all night and all day , until the following evening came into the clearing where there was a hut Baba Yaga 
, a fence around the hut of human bones, skulls on the fence sticking human , eyes , instead verey at the gate - human 
legs instead of constipation - hands , instead of the castle - the mouth with sharp teeth. Vasilisa was stupefied with 
terror and became rooted to the spot . Suddenly the train again horseman himself black, dressed in all black and a black 
horse , rode up to the gate of the Baba Yaga and disappeared , vanished into thin air - it was night . But the darkness 
did not last long : all the skulls on the fence lit eyes , and the clearing was as bright as the mid day. Vasilisa 
trembled with fear , but not knowing where to go, remained in place .


Soon he heard a terrible noise in the forest : trees cracked , dry leaves crunched , left the forest Baba Yaga - rides 
in a mortar , pestle chases , broom sweeps track . Drove up to the gate, stopped , and sniffing around, shouted, " Fu Fu 
! Russian spirit smells ! Who is here? " Vasilisa went to the old woman , with fear and bowing , said:" It's me, grandma 
! Machehina daughter sent me the fire for you . " - "Well, - said Baba Yaga - I know them in advance so you tarry come 
work for me, then I will give you fire , and if not, so I'll eat you ! " Then he turned to the gate and cried out : "Hey 
, constipation my strong, open the door , my gate wide , opening ! " gate opened , and the Baba Yaga drove whistling 
behind her came Vasilisa , and then again everything locked up . Entering the chamber, Baba Yaga stretched and says 
Vasilisa : " Grant that over here , that there is in the oven , I 'm hungry ."

Vasilissa lighted a splinter from those skulls that on the fence and started to pull out of the oven so fed Yaga dish 
and dishes bungle was ten people , she brought from the cellar kvass , honey, beer and wine. All ate , drank all the old
woman ; Vasilisa left only a little cabbage soup , crust of bread and a little bit pig . Baba Yaga has become to go to 
bed and says: "When I leave tomorrow , you see - yard cleaned out , swept the house , dinner concocted , linen , prepare
, so go into the bin , take a quarter of wheat and cleanse it from chernushki1 . Yes that all was done , not what - to 
eat you ! " After such behest Baba Yaga began to snore , and Vasilissa put the old lady doll scraps before , burst into 
tears and said:" On , doll , eat, listen to my sorrow ! heavy gave me Baba Yaga work and threatens to eat me , 
if all I have done , help me! " Doll said," Do not worry, Vasilisa the Beautiful ! Dine , Pray yes sleep lozhisya ; 
morning wiser than the evening! "

Raneshenko woke Vasilisa and Baba Yaga was already up , looked out the window at the skulls eyes goes out, that's 
flashed white rider - and quite light . Baba Yaga went out into the yard , whistle - before it was a mortar with a 
pestle and a broom . Flashed red rider - the sun rose . Baba Yaga sat in a stupa and drove out of the yard, chases 
pestle , broom sweeps track . Vasilisa remained alone, inspected the house hags, marveled abound around and stood in 
thought : what work it primarily to take . Looks , and all the work is already done ; doll chose from wheat grain last 
blackie . " Oh, you , my deliverer ! - Said Vasilisa chrysalis . - You saved me from trouble . " - "You have only to 
cook up dinner - meet doll, incurring pocket Vasilisa . - Concocted with God , and the rest to your health! "

By evening Vasilisa laid the table and waiting for Baba Yaga . Dusk , the gate flashed black rider - and quite dark , 
glowing eyes only skulls. Cracked trees, crunching leaves - rides Baba Yaga . Vasilisa met her . "Are all done ? " - 
Asks the witch . " Kindly see herself , Grandma! " - Quoth Vasilisa . Baba Yaga examined everything , podosadovala that 
have nothing to be angry , and said, " Well , well ! " Then he cried, " my faithful servant , dear friend , my grind 
wheat ! " Were three pairs of hands , grabbed wheat and carried out of the eye . Baba Yaga gorged became bedtime and 
again gave Victoria the order : "Tomorrow you do the same thing and now , and moreover take bins of poppy yes cleanse it 
from the ground grain by grain , you see someone on the ground in a rage are mixed ! "said the old woman turned to the 
wall and began to snore , and Vasilisa began to feed her doll . Pupa ate and told her on the day before : " Pray to God 
but go to bed , tomorrow is a new day , everything will be done Vasilisushka ! "

The next morning the Baba Yaga again left the yard in a mortar , and Vasilisa doll all the work immediately corrected . 
The old woman came back , looked around , and all cried, " my faithful servant , dear friend , squeeze out poppy oil! " 
Were three pairs of hands , seized and carried away from poppy eyes. Baba Yaga sat down to dinner , she eats , and 
Vasilisa stands silently . " Why do not you say to me? - Said the Baba Yaga . - You stand as mute "-" Do not dare , - 
answered Vasilisa - and if I may , I would like to ask you about something . " - "Ask , only not every question leads to 
good : a lot of you will know soon grow old " - " I want to ask you , Grandma, just about what I saw when I came to you 
, I was overtaken by a rider on a white horse , he white and dressed in white : who is he? "-" it is my clear day "- 
answered the Baba Yaga . " Then he passed me another rider on a red horse , red and myself all dressed in red , who is 
that ? " - " This is my red sun " - answered the Baba Yaga . " And what does the black rider who passed me in the most
thy gates, Grandma? "-" This is my dark night - all my faithful servant ! "

Vasilisa remembered the three pairs of hands, and was silent. "Well you're not asking? " - Quoth the Baba Yaga . "It 
will be with me and that; itself are you, my grandmother said that many know - you grow old ." - "Well, - said the Baba 
Yaga - that you ask only that seen in court and not in the yard ! I do not like to have my dirty linen in public endured 
, and too curious it! Now I ask you : how do you have time to do the work , I ask you? "-" I help my mother's blessing "
- answered Vasilisa . " So that's what ! Did you get out of me, blessed daughter! I do not need a blessing. " She pulled 
out of the chamber and Vasilis shoved out of the gate , took off the fence one skull with glowing eyes and natknuv on a 
stick, gave her and said, " Here's to fire Machehina daughters, take it: they in fact behind it and sent you here ."

Vasilisa home run set off by the light of the skull, which went out only with the onset of the morning , and finally , 
in the evening the other day got to her house. Approaching the gate, she was about to throw the skull. " It's true home 
- think yourself - it's more in the fire did not need." But suddenly he heard a muffled voice from the skull : " Do not 
leave me , bring a stepmother ! "

She glanced at her stepmother's house , and seeing no spark in one window , decided to go with the skull. First met her 
kindly and told me that from the time she left, they did not have the fire in the house : they could not carve and who 
brought fire from the neighbors - that extinguished once were with him in the parlor . "Perhaps your fire will be held " 
- said the stepmother . Skull made ​​into a loft , and the eyes of the skull and staring at her stepmother and her 
daughters , and burn! Those could hide , but wherever rush - eyes everywhere for them and watching ; quite the morning 
burned them in charcoal ; Vasilisa one unmoved .

Vasilisa morning buried skull into the ground , locked house of the castle , went into the city and asked to live on one
rootless old woman , currently lives and waiting for his father. That's something she says the old woman : " It's boring
to sit around me , Grandma! Go get me the best flax , though I will spin . " Good old lady bought flax ; Vasilisa 
village to work, work and burns her , and the yarn goes flat so thin as a hair . Accumulated a lot of yarn , it is time 
to be taken for the textile , but will not find these reeds that were good for Vasilisino yarn , and nobody wants to do 
something. Vasilisa begged her doll , that and says, " bring me some old reed , but the old canoe , horse mane yes , I 
make you ."

Vasilisa produced all that is necessary, and went to bed , and doll night cooked a nice camp. By the end of winter and 
the woven fabric , it was so subtle that thread through the needle thread the can instead . Spring whitened canvas , and
Vasilisa old woman says : " Sell, grandmother, this canvas , and take the money myself." The old woman looked at the 
product and gasped , "No, my child ! Such paintings , except the king , wearing nobody , will carry into the palace . "

132

The old woman went to the king's chambers past the windows so all walked about . King saw and asked: " What do you want 
, old woman want? " - " Your Majesty - meets an old woman - I brought a bizarre items ; anyone okromya you do not want 
to show ." The king ordered to admit to himself as an old woman and saw blade - vzdivovalsya . " What do you want for it
? " - Asked the king . "He is priceless , dear father ! I'll bring him a gift . " Thanked the king, and let the old 
woman with gifts.

Became king of that fabric to sew shirts , rip up , yes never could find a seamstress who would take them to work . Been
looking for , and finally the king called the old woman and said: " Cleverly you napryast and weave such a fabric , 
learn from it and sew shirts ." - "Not I , sir, spun and wove cloth, - said the old woman , - this is the work of my 
foster child - a girl ." - " Well, let him and sew it ! " Gates told the old lady home and everything Vasilisa . "I knew
- she says Vasilisa - that the work of my hands will not pass ." Locked herself in her chamber, her work ; she sewed 
pokladyvayuchi hands, and soon a dozen shirts were ready .

The old woman suffered a king shirts and Vasilisa washed, combed her hair , dressed, and sat by the window . Sits back 
and waits to be . Sees : the yard to the old woman is a royal servant , came into the chamber and said: " Lord Tsar 
wants mistress that he worked shirts, and reward her of his royal hands." Vasilisa was gone and before the eyes of the 
king's . As the king saw Vasilisa the Beautiful , and fell in love with her ​​without memory . "No, - he says - my 
beauty ! I will not part with thee, thou shalt be my wife . " Then the king took Vasilisa for white hands , put her 
beside him , and there and played Noces . Soon returned and father Vasilisa , was glad about her life and stayed with 
her ​​daughter. Vasilisa old woman took to her , and by the end of the chrysalis of his life has always been in the 
pocket.


footnotes

Footnote on page 129

1 Chernuha - moss , wild kind of field peas.
